>> Marc: So,
you wrote your first JavaScript.
You wrote your first programming,
possibly.
Pretty cool.
So numbers, strings, and booleans.
These are called types.
You don't really have to care
a whole lot about that but
just know that there are multiple
different kinds of variables.
So whereas before we were dealing with
numbers, right, I think this makes sense,
that monthlyRent = 500.
By the way, if you have like 1500,
do not put commas between numbers.
That doesn't work.
Just so you know.
Actually, pretty soon you'll be
able to put underscores there.
That's a new part of JavaScript,
people wanted it, I don't care.
Anyway, not today.
You can't do that today.
But don't separate numbers,
I guess that's what I'm trying to say.
So we're going to be dealing
with something called strings.
So they're called strings because they are
a string of characters strung together,
think like Cheerios on a string, right.
Same thing, this is a bunch
of characters put together.
And they're either between single quotes,
double quotes, or back ticks.
Back ticks are the ones that
are on the same key as the tilde,
which is the left of one, right.
It looks like that.
It's probably really hard to see but
that's back tick.
So you can also use that
instead of double quotes.
You can put a back tick here as well and
that works just fine.
>> Marc: So again this
is called a string which is basically like
words and character and stuff like that.
So now my name is being stored
inside of this variable and
then I console logged out my name.
And you see down here,
it's logging out the string, Bryan Holt.
The word string is really important,
it's something that you should remember.
It's important across all programming
languages, all them column strings, so
it's just what you need to know.
>> Marc: Questions about strings so
far?
>> Marc: Okay.
>> Marc: They're everywhere
in programming as you might imagine.
We're constantly keeping track of
things like address, names of products,
cities, anything you can think of,
we use strings everywhere.
So they are quite important.
>> Marc: We can
connect strings together using plus signs.
We are basically almost
doing like string math.
So if I have sentence right here
with the first name and last name.
And I do console.log(sentence).
I have hello.
Notice that there is a space there.
firstname space, because I want a space
between my first name and my last name.
And it says, How are you?
So it says, Hello Brian Holt How are you?
Right, if we're looking at this?
>> Marc: Right
there?
>> Marc: Make sense?
That's called string concatenation because
we're just connecting strings together to
make a larger string.
Now, again, you need spaces here.
Otherwise, if you look,
if I got rid of all of these.
>> Marc: It
would mush it all together, right?
You actually have to tell it, please
put spaces here or it does not do it.
Cuz the computer does exactly what you
tell to do which is both a good and
a very terrible thing.
So, that's why you need to spaces
there as you get the spaces between
Hello Brian Holt.
So, this is the old way of doing this.
It's tedious as you can see, you have
to put a lot of plus signs in here.
It'd be better if we
didn't do have that way.
So you can do these with what
are called template strings.
Template strings are brand new, as of
2015 which is quite new for JavaScript.
By now it's like a 30 year old language.
So if I put back ticks,
notice this one is using double quotes and
I could've just as easily put
single quotes here as well.
If you put back ticks this
is called a template string.
So again, that's one of next
the one key to left key,
the left of the one key on your keyboard.
Put it back and I say,
Hello firstname Lastname, How are you and
you get the exactly the same effect.
You have this $ sign curly brace.
And then you have something inside of
here and then end curly brace over here.
That's how you basically tell
JavaScript to like, hey,
I want to a put a variable here.
So I have my first name
being stored here and
then I'm putting that out here with hello
first name, there's a space here, right?
But I could have just as easily
put a bunch of spaces there,
and you can see that it moves over.
>> Marc: So
$, and you can do that as many
times as you want inside of your template
stream.
>> Marc: Any
questions?
>> Marc: So
it's very key that you're
using back ticks here.
I just wanna like emphasize
that a couple of times.
In order to use the template
functionalities,
you must be using back ticks.
>> Male: That only works with,
that new, with those new
features that you're referencing.
>> Marc: Which new features?
>> Male: The sentence
with template.
>> Marc: Yeah.
>> Male: Okay.
>> Marc: Yeah, so
if you wanna use the new features,
you have to be using the back ticks.
If I put single quotes or
double quotes here I would actually
literally get that outputted right?
Which is probably not
what you're going for.
Now by the same token up here
I don't actually have to use
double quotes up here.
First of all you can use single
quotes that works fine and
you can even use back ticks up here.
And that works as well.
The key with back ticks is that if
you want to use the template strings,
you have to use the back ticks.
That's the only extra thing.
>> Marc: Okay.
>> Marc: Any questions about back ticks or
anything like that?
>> Marc: Yes?
>> Male 2: I think I have kind of
a basic question but I just wanna see,
so we dealt with numbers and
then we brought in variables.
And so
if you brought numbers into variables,
we just lose any ability to do
mathematical computations on that because,
or is that still possible?
>> Marc: That's a great question.
So if I start bringing in
numbers to my strings and
start mixing the two together,
what happens?
What properties does that have?
So actually let me make sure.
Down here somewhere.
I do have an entire section about
talking about this coercion.
We will get to the section on
coercion here in just a second.
But you can use numbers inside of strings,
right.
They're considered just another character.
So I could put 5 here,
something like that.
That works totally fine.
But once it's a string,
you can't really do math with it.
So if I do const five = "5",
and notice that this is inside of quotes.
So now, this is a string 5.
If I do console.log five + five,
it's not gonna give you ten.
You get 55 because it's
concatenating the strings together.
So that's what you would actually expect.
Now, I will talk about how to
get around that a bit later.
>> Marc: But yeah that's a great question.
Any other questions?
Please.
>> Male 3: Is there [COUGH] a unique
convention for adding notes in JavaScript?
>> Marc: Yep.
>> Male 3: That don't write into the code?
>> Marc: So a thing called comments.
>> Male 3: Use the slash.
>> Marc: Slash slash.
>> Male 3: Slash slash.
>> Marc: There's two ways to it actually.
You can also use the same that
you did with CSS and do */.
The difference is // is gonna
do it just on one line.
So now this is another,
>> Marc: Right?
This will execute here but if I do /*,
anything until I close it,
this is still a comment.
Does it makes sense?
>> Male 3: Yes.
>> Marc: Cool, good question.
>> Marc: Other questions?
>> Marc: All right.
>> Marc: Booleans, booleans are true or
false.
I think it's named after Bool?
[LAUGH] Who I think was a mathematician.
Like if I was doing some sort of
like smart home technology and I was
just trying to check if he light is on or
off, I would represent that as a Boolean.
And I would say, lightIsOn = true and
if the lights were on then I would set it
to true and then if they were not on,
then const lightIsOn = false.
Booleans, Booleans are true and false.
You're gonna use them all over the place,
Booleans are quite useful, and
you just write const lights equals true
for true and you do false for false, and
that's really all there is to Booleans.
>> Marc: Numbers are a type,
we've kind of already dealt
with them a little bit.
Some languages separate numbers
into multiple different types.
Usually integers and floats but
we do not do that in JavaScript.
We have one number type and
it's called number.
[LAUGH] Surprise, so whether it's a whole
number like, one, two, three, four,
five, 10,000, 50,000,
5,005, whatever it is.
Or if it's a decimal number,
which is what other languages
would normally call a float like,
1.2, pi, whatever, those are represented
as the same thing in JavaScript.
So you do not have to separate
those out in your head.
That being said, it kind of makes painful
because if you're trying to do precise
math like very precise math trying to
measure very small distances or
currencies can also be a problem.
JavaScript math can be quite inexact
to the point that it's quite annoying.
[LAUGH] So be careful about doing
precise math in JavaScript,
you will have problems.
>> Marc: Questions about that?
It's kind of high level, I think that's
something you kinda just have to
experience and then we'll kinda get
going and you'll understand that.